did you ever think of your spark plugs
as the heart of your engine the primary
purpose of the spark plug is to ignite
the air fuel mixture inside the cylinder
so your engine can make power the
secondary function is to transfer the
heat generated by that process into the
surrounding engine coolant that flows
through the cylinder head this transfer
keeps the spark plug self-cleaning and
the rate at which the plugs transfer
heat is called the heat range we're here
today to remove and replace a set of
spark plug how often you need to change
your spark plugs will depend on the type
of driving you do typically conventional
copper core spark plugs should be
replaced every 25 to 30,000 miles when
selecting a replacement spark plug note
the make model year and type of engine
in your vehicle and take that
information to your local parts store
you may choose to replace your spark
plugs with the same type you removed
like copper or platinum or upgrade to a
newer Iridium technology plug type that
delivers improved performance like this
bosch ir fusion removing the spark plugs
begins with finding them on older
engines follow a spark plug wire to the
cylinder head on newer engines look for
individual ignition coils or coil packs
location will determine the right tools
for the job a spark plug socket ratchet
and extension are the old standards a
universal joint can help maneuver the
socket remove the spark plug wire by
gently pulling the boot never pull on
the wire remove one spark plug to start
the gap between the two electrodes is
where the ignition spark jumps to ignite
the air fuel mixture the distance of
this gap is crucial most newer
technology plugs like the bosch Platinum
I our fusion spark plug were installing
today
come pre gap so there's no need to gap
but if you need to adjust the gap on the
plug you're installing do it carefully
so you don't damage the center electrode
to widen the gap pull back gently on the
ground electrode being careful not to
put any pressure on the center electrode
to narrow the gap gently tap the ground
electrode on a flat surface
measure the distance with a gap gauge
before installing the spark plug always
thread spark plugs in by hand to start a
length of rubber hose placed over the
spark plug insulator can be a great help
stop if the spark plug offers any
resistance try again until you can feel
it thread in tighten the plug just
enough to seat the seal against the
cylinder head follow the manufacturer's
recommended torque spec to finish the
job over tightening or cross threading a
spark plug can strip the threads out of
the cylinder head install the spark plug
boot and move on to the next spark plug
and here's another helpful tip it's a
good idea to replace your spark plug
wires or coil boots to make sure you get
the best performance out of your new
plot remember inspecting and replacing
spark plugs according to manufacturer's
recommendations can help keep your
engine running at peak efficiency
improved performance and better gas
mileage are just a few minutes and a
twist to the wrench away
you